#E-Commerce Portal For Sports Equipment [Assignment 8-December-2024]

Point 1: List down the major features for the ecommerce portal:

The ecommerce portal is cable of handling an authenticated Vendor, the customers and admin.

1. For Customers END:

A: The website frontend should include where a customer/user can view and search for sports equipment, and with filters for categories, brands, ratings and price.
B. The database should provide authenticate information about each product, including images, description, and the reviews of customers who have purchased the equipment. This will build trust.
C. The application should provide various authenticate payment methods (credit card, Debit Card, Google Pay, PhonePay etc).
D. Add to cart or Wishlist option so that the customer can access the item in future.
E. The application should provide a unique-Track-ID with the help of which the customer can track its product in real-time.
F. Customer can call to helpline number if they face any problem.
G. Loyal customer: If a customer is purchasing products for long time. He/she must be given some discount or additional gifts. This will attract more customers.
H. The application can handle load [At least 1000 customers per time and At least 1 Lakh during festivals sales [Diwali, Holi, Eid, Christmas etc]]
I. The application must be available for Mobile as well as laptops/Computers.

2. For Vendors END:

A. A vendor can easily setup his/her account in the application with company/shop name.
B. The vendor should be authenticated for this we can take his/her Mobile number, Gmail and Adhar Card for verification. 
C. The vendor can easily manipulate the database using buttons like delete, update, add new product, add new image etc.
D. There should be a table which can tell the user how much products have been sold out, how much required, profit and other reports.
E. The vendor can also see the feedbacks of the equipment’s.







Point 2. Define user journey:

1. Customer Onboarding: [It must be easy and short so it gives no pain to the customers]

Step01: The customer needs to get registered using Gmail, Facebook, Mobile number etc.
Step02: The customers add their address [City, State, Pin code and Landmarks must be included] 
Step03: The customers should easily explore the website to find desired products they want to buy and there should be filters based on categories, brands, ratings and price. They can see reviews also.
Step04: The selected products should be added to the Wishlist or to the cart on click.
Step05: The user paid the payment and receives a confirmation message along with a unique track-ID.
Step06: The option to cancel the order anytime.
Step07: When the product is delivered, they are open to share their experience.

2. Vendor Onboarding: [Higly authenticated and secured]

Step01: The Vendor registers with their Shop/company/business details, including name, address, and contact information. For higher security Adhar Card.
Step02: The vendor adds their 3-4 equipment with price, image, description etc. [Demo Purpose]
Step03: The admin must review a vendor information and his/her product quality before further approval.
//The vendor has to wait [Waiting...]
//When the final approval is granted. [Green Card]
Step04: The vendor adds their all equipment with price, image, description etc. [Selling Purpose]
Step05: Vendor’s products are listed on the site, and they can start selling.
Step06: A button to check the Dashboard: Profit, Sales etc reports.
Step07: Show warnings or important alerts in separate section.
Step08: The Vendor can view incoming orders, update order status, and handle returns.
Step09: The admin of the application can talk to the vendor.
Step10: A final check of product before shipping.
Step11: Vendor’s product is trackable to the customer, vendor as well as the admin.
Step12: Vendor and the admin get their share.
